Cactus is an unusual plant that differs from others in the absence of leaves and the presence of thorns. Photosynthesis occurs with the help of the green pillar of which it is composed. The fact that this plant does not look like more than one leafy plant became interested in biologists and navigators who often visited America.
The shapes and sizes of cacti are very diverse, they are both high and low, both thin and thick, both round and oval. In the wild, cacti are large and branched, they grow strongly. But at home, they are small in size, and always well-groomed, and usually such plants do not have branches, they can appear in a few decades.
The thorns of a cactus perform an important function, as this plant has a poorly developed root system, the cactus can take moisture only with the help of thorns. So, the main function of thorns is to absorb moisture. The spines also perform a protective function, they protect the plant from sunlight and temperature changes, especially when it gets dark and colder.
A small cactus should not feel a lack of water, so you need to look at the ground, if the ground is dry, then it's time to water it. An adult cactus needs to be watered about four times a month in summer, but in winter it does not need watering at all, and if watering is necessary, then no more than twice a month.
When watering your plant, you should pay attention to its location, if the pot is on the sunny side, then you need to water it often, and if it is in the shade, then you need to water it less often.
Ordinary tap water for watering a prickly friend will not work, because it is cold and rich in chlorine, which can have a detrimental effect on the plant. It is recommended to boil 5 liters. water and add 9% vinegar there, this is a good top dressing for a cactus.
In the desert, cacti are a real salvation for people, because they quench thirst and hunger, besides, this plant is useful to eat. By the way, they make candied fruits from cacti, make jam, make wines, liquors and the well-known tequila.
Cactus is a unique plant that won the hearts of not only scientists, but also ordinary people, because this plant is not only beautiful in appearance, it has a lot of benefits and is used in the food industry.